id: 001
author: Samuelps
summary: Basic set-up for an Appyx based project
categories: android, appyx, compose
environments: Web
status: Published


# Hello Appyx!

## What is this codelab about?

In this codelab you will see how to do the minimum set-up to have Appyx working on your Android project. You will also add a basic Node and get in touch with some Appyx basic concepts.

If you want to know more about Appyx, you can visit https://bumble-tech.github.io/appyx/

## FirstSteps project

Some info about the project:
Where is it
Structure info


## Add dependencies
Appyx required dependencies can be found in https://bumble-tech.github.io/appyx/releases/downloads/

For this codelab you will only need the core dependencie, as no testing is implied and addons are not yet required.
The latest released version of Appyx, can be found in the github repository:
https://github.com/bumble-tech/appyx/releases/

Apart from that, you will need to add appCompat library to your project as NodeActivity extends AppCompatActivity for Fragment compatibility reasons.

Add the next lines to your gradle file:

    // Appyx Core
    implementation "com.bumble.appyx:core:$appyx_version"
    // AppCompat
    implementation "androidx.appcompat:appcompat:$app_compat_version"

Finally, update Appyx version to the last one if desired, update Kotlin plugin and compose version if required, and synchronize your gradle.


## Creating the root node

In Appyx, a Node is the structural element that composed your application tree. 
If you want to learn more about Nodes, you can check the documentation: https://bumble-tech.github.io/appyx/apps/structure/?h=node#parent-nodes-child-nodes

As the basic structural element, we need to create a new Node for our application to work with Appyx. It is quite simple, you just need to create a new class that extends the Node Appyx class, and provide the required arguments to its constructor.


//TODO: add code/screenshot


## Add the view to our Node

At this point, your Node class is created but it would show nothing as it doesn't have a view.
To provide a view override the "View" composable function, and provide the required composable.
For example, you can start by invoking the Greeting composable function defined in MainActivity.kt file.

//TODO: add code/screenshot


## Integrating the node

Our RootNode is ready, however we need to connect it somehow to our MainActivity.
As this is the root node of the tree, we must plug it to a NodeHost, a class provided by Appyx for this purpose.
A NodeHost requires an IntegrationPoint, a class part of Appyx that helps with the integration between Nodes and (in this case) Activities.
And the integrationPoint is accesible from Node Activities, thus you just need to:

* Modify MainActiyivy to extend NodeActivity
* Add a NodeHost
* Plug your RootNode using the NodeHost factory.

//TODO: Add code

Last step, we need to update the Theme to use some AppCompat theme as this is an AppCompatActivity requirement.

//TODO: Add code


Finally, your app is ready, you can now compile and observe the results!


## Conclusions
change root node so navigation is controlled based on state
add log out button